ci: add commit message validation script and contributing guide (#1760)
openshift/sandboxed-containers-operator: docs/CONTRIBUTING.md

2. **Make your changes** following the commit message format above.

3. **Test your changes** thoroughly:
   - Run unit tests: `make test`
   - Build the operator: `make docker-build`
   - Test on an OpenShift cluster if possible

4. **Update documentation** if you're changing functionality or adding features.

5. **Fill out the PR template** with:
   - Description of the problem being solved
   - What you did
   - How to verify the changes
   - Changelog description

6. **Ensure CI passes**:
   - All tests must pass
   - Commit messages must pass validation
   - No merge conflicts

7. **Request reviews** from maintainers and address feedback promptly.

## Development Workflow

### Setting Up Your Development Environment

See [DEVELOPMENT.md](./DEVELOPMENT.md) for detailed instructions on:
- Installing prerequisites (Go 1.22.x, Operator SDK 1.39.1, etc.)
- Setting up container registry access
- Configuring environment variables
- Building and deploying the operator

### Making Changes

1. Create a feature branch:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feat/your-feature-name
   ```

2. Make your changes and commit following the commit message format.

> 3. Keep your commits focused and atomic - each commit should represent a single logical change.

Reviewer: Not sure where to add it but there's another requirement I'd like to document : every individual commit should be buildable for the sake of bisectability.

Author: Good point. I will edit the CONTRIBUTING.md to include that.

Author: Done. better now?

# Contributing to OpenShift Sandboxed Containers Operator

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the OpenShift Sandboxed Containers Operator!

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Commit Message Format](#commit-message-format)
- [Pull Request Process](#pull-request-process)
- [Development Workflow](#development-workflow)
- [Code Review](#code-review)

## Getting Started

Before you begin:

1. **Read the Development Guide**: See [DEVELOPMENT.md](./DEVELOPMENT.md) for prerequisites, setup instructions, and build processes.

> 2. **Check existing JIRA issues**: We use JIRA for issue tracking. Check if your bug or feature has already been reported in the KATA project.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a link : https://issues.redhat.com/projects/KATA

Author: done

> 3. **Join the community**: Our team can be found in #team-sandboxed-containers channel at Red Hat's Slack.

Reviewer 2: team-sandboxed-containers is a private channel.
forum-sandboxed-containers is probably more appropriate?

Author: done. Added both :)

1. Create a feature branch:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feat/your-feature-name
   ```

2. Make your changes and commit following the commit message format (use `git commit -s` to add Signed-off-by automatically).

3. Keep your commits focused and atomic - each commit should represent a single logical change.

4. Validate your commits before pushing:
   ```bash
   ./hack/commit-msg-check.sh origin/devel HEAD
   ```

5. Push your changes and create a pull request.

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run unit tests
make test

# Build operator image
make docker-build
```

Run `make help` for further targets you may want to use to verify your changes.

## Code Review

- **Be responsive**: Address review comments promptly.
- **Be open to feedback**: Reviewers are trying to help improve the code.
- **Keep discussions professional**: Focus on the code, not the person.
- **Update commits**: When addressing review feedback, amend your existing commits and force-push to keep the history clean.

### Review Criteria

Reviewers will check for:
- Code correctness and functionality
- Test coverage
- Documentation updates
- Commit message format compliance
- Adherence to project conventions

> - Security implications

Reviewer 3: I miss a few things here and I see this list growing quickly. Also could we mention other criterias like the amount of acks needed?

So, as suggestion, maybe instead of a list, could we remove this list and add an open paragraph, something like this:

> _"Changes are expected to work correctly and integrate safely without breaking existing behavior. Contributors should understand the implications of their changes and be ready to answer questions or make adjustments if needed. Each change requires at least two approvals from reviewers before it can be merged, ensuring that multiple perspectives confirm correctness, impact, and maintainability."_

Author: I re-wrote the "Code review" section. what do you think?

Reviewer 3: amongst other things, makes me happy. thanks

# Contributing to OpenShift Sandboxed Containers Operator

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the OpenShift Sandboxed Containers Operator!

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Commit Message Format](#commit-message-format)
- [Pull Request Process](#pull-request-process)
- [Development Workflow](#development-workflow)
- [Code Review](#code-review)

## Getting Started

Before you begin:

1. **Read the Development Guide**: See [DEVELOPMENT.md](./DEVELOPMENT.md) for prerequisites, setup instructions, and build processes.

> 2. **Check existing JIRA issues**: We use JIRA for issue tracking. Check if your bug or feature has already been reported in the [KATA project](https://issues.redhat.com/projects/KATA).

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
2. **Check existing JIRA issues**: We use JIRA for issue tracking. Check if your bug or feature has already been reported in the [KATA project](https://redhat.atlassian.net/jira/software/c/projects/KATA/summary).
```

Author: fixed
